Role Generation
----------------------

0. Terminology

1. Requirements

    1.1. Vampire and Vampire Hunter
    1.2. Unique Roles
    1.3. Mafia
    1.4. General factions

2. The Issue of User Input

3. Implementation

----------------------

0. Terminology

Incomplete Role List - A role list with any number of elements in the list being a category of roles, and the role list potentially violating game rules(ex: it has more than five mafia roles).

Complete Role List - A role list with every single element in the list being a specific role, and it abiding by game rules.

----------------------

1. Requirements

    After the user passes in their incomplete role list, and the validator checks to make sure that it could be made into a complete role list, it is now time to generate such a list. When generating the complete role list however, not only does the generation have to generate the roles fairly, but it has to abide by the game rules. 

1.1. Vampire and Vampire Hunter

    The Vampire is a role in a very strange spot. It has a category that it belongs to, Neutral Chaos, but it is the only role in that category, and it cannot be selected normally. The only way for the Vampire to appear is to either list it directly in the role list, have a Random Neutral in the role list(it will roll against all the other Neutral Roles in the game to appear), or have an Any in the role list(where it rolls against every role in the game that can appear in that spot). There can also be only four vampires in the game.

    The Vampire Hunter is in an even stranger spot. It belongs to Town Killing, a regularly used category with roles already in it. But while the Vampire can appear in any of those cases listed above, the Vampire Hunter may only appear if there is a Vampire in the game. Having a Vampire Hunter in a role list where there is no Vampire is role list that breaks the games rules, even if there is an Any slot for the Vampire to appear in.

1.2. Unique Roles

    Unique roles are roles that can only appear once in the game, if at all. The biggest issue regarding this is that generation must account for this. If during generation it is called to get a random category, which all have weights based off of their sizes, their weights must be accurate. A unique role appearing on the field from one of the categories should reduce its weight.

1.3. Mafia

    The mafia have a variety of restrictions on them. For starters, if mafia is to appear in the complete role list, there must be at least one mafia killing role. Mafia roles that are not mafia killing roles cannot appear in the game without a mafia killing role. As with the Vampire case, placing those non mafia killing roles in the game and then relying on the mafia killer to appear in the Any is a violation of the game rules. A further catch is that both of the Mafia Killing roles are unique. Enforcing the appearence of at least one of those roles when they could appear in many different spots, while abiding by the unique rule, is a very problematic issue. 

    The mafia may also only have a maximum of five mafia members at the start of the game. If there are, as an example, five Random Mafia roles, then any Any roles in the game may NOT be a mafia role.

1.4. General Factions

    The game ends when a faction eliminates all of the others that oppose their faction. As such, in order for there to be a game, there must be different factions in the complete role list, even if the role list would be very heavily stacked against one faction. From the following list, any combination of at least two would satisfy this requirment:

    - Town
    - Mafia
    - Any role belonging to the Neutral Killing category
    - Vampire

    There is also a special case, of the role Witch. If the role list contains a Witch with at least one Vigilante, then it also satisifes the faction requirement. However, in order for this to count, both the roles of Vigilante and the Witch must be defined in the role list. Relying them to appear under general categories is not allowed to satisfy this case, even if it is possible to manipulate the categories so that a Vigilante and a Witch appear. 

----------------------

2. The Issue of User Input

    Giving the ability for the user to provide their own incomplete role list, and then having to generate a complete role list based off of the rules provided under section 1(assuming the validator sees that it is possible), opens up a wide variety of issues.

    If a Vampire is not present in the role list directly, then it can only be generated from two categories. However, as the Vampire Hunter appears only if a Vampire is present, it has to generated in such a way that the Vampire Hunter has a fair chance of appearing. If it's done all at once, there may be several Town Killing roles at the start of the list, which cannot roll Vampire Hunter as there is no Vampire. At the end of the list would be the only Any, and if it happened to be a Vampire, then the role list had no chance to roll for a Vampire Hunter despite it having the possibility to appear.

    With the mafia comes another problem, as the Mafia Killing roles open up a lot of issues. For example, a valid role list that can be passed in could contain one Mafia Killing slot, a defined role belonging to the Mafia Killing category, and three Mafia Randoms. In this scenario, the generator must recognize that the second killing role must appear in the Mafia Killing slot, and that it cannot appear under the Mafia Random slot. Having it appear in a Mafia Random slot means that both killing roles are now on the field, and as such, there is no role left to appear in the Mafia Killing slot!

    Possibly the biggest and most complicated user input that could be provided is a role list that is entirely composed of the Any role, which is the user's way of saying give me anything. Worst case scenario would be 15 Any slots, with which the program has to generate a Complete Role List that abides by the rules in 1. How could that be done while ensuring the fairness of the Vampire and Vampire Hunter appearing, the mafia having at least one killer, and seeing that there could even be a game off of the role list?

----------------------

3. Implementation

    Before handing it over to the raw generator, we must prep the list by altering roles in order for the list to be considered valid.

    Mafia:
    
    Check what the validator is saying. If it indicates we have to replace a Random Mafia with a Mafia Killing, we do so.
    Once we finish that, for every Mafia Killing present in the role list(max 2), we roll that category. This is to prevent further logic errors in future role generation.

    Faction:

    If the size of the Unique Faction is two or more, don't do anything.
    If the size is 1, jot down 1. If 0, jot down 2.
    For the number jotted down, roll(in order of priority) an Any and then Random Neutral for a faction which is not already in the unique faction list. Add rolled factions to that list.

    Vampire:

    If there is a Vampire directly in the final list(as all defined roles were moved there), that gets noted down, and the Vampire Hunter is added to the Town Killing category. Otherwise, we look to see if there are any Random Neutral or Any categories in the role list. For every Random Neutral, we'll roll to see if the odds of a Vampire appearing match. Afterwards, we'll roll for every Any to see if the odds there match. If, for one of the rolls the odds to match, the rolled category will be replaced with a Vampire, it will be noted that there are Vampires, and the Vampire Hunter will be added to Town Killing. If these rolls fail, then there is no Vampire in the game, and will be ignored in all future rolls.

OLD
----------------------

    For reference, when the Any is being rolled, every role that has a possibly of appearing in that Any slot has an equal chance to appear. If there are 20 viable roles, each one has a 1/20 chance of appearing.

    Before we begin generating the Complete Role List, we first have to go through the Validator. The Validator's job is to not only to check if this role list could be made into a Complete Role List, but to note which parts of the Incomplete Role List pose problems if the role list can be made into a Complete Role List. Specifically, it will note the following points down:

    Point 1: If we do not have two opposing factions in the role list(but have a category slot in which they can appear)
    Point 2: One(or none) of the following cases of the Mafia in the role list
        Case 1: If there is a Mafia Killing in the role list
        Case 2: If there is no Mafia Killing nor a role that belongs in the category, but there is Random Mafia
        Case 3: If there is no Mafia in the list but there is an Any slot for them to appear in

    If the Validator accepts, it is now time to begin the generation. The first thing that gets done is all the defined, non categorical roles, get moved over to the Completed Role List. The reason for this action is because of Unique roles affecting the Any rolls. The Any rolls for every possible role that can appear in that spot without breaking game rules. If a Unique role is on the field, then that role cannot appear in the Any slot. Having it on the field complicates things and also shifts the weight of the rolls, and as such, they are added into the Completed Role List right away in order to avoid such complications.

    The next thing we do is look at the points that it raised. If point 1 is raised, that means that we either have multiple Any slots with no factions listed in 1.4 present, or an Any slot present alongside a faction listed in 1.4. In the first scenario, one of the Any slots will be taken and rolled into a faction present in 1.4. Afterwards, a second Any slot will be rolled, and if needed, rerolled, until there is a second faction present from 1.4. In the second scenario, the Any slot will be rolled until it is of a different faction(that is in 1.4) than the one currently inside the role list. In both scenarios, if there is a Mafia role rolled when no Mafia are on the field, that role automatically becomes one of the Mafia Killing roles. If that happens, Case 3 from point 2 is dropped(as it is now false, and it must have been raised in this situation).

    If point 2 is raised, we look at the specific cases raised. If case 1 is raised, then we go along and with each Mafia Killing slot, we roll an appropriate killer. If there is already a role that is a mafia killer defined on the list, then that'll be noted and the(what should be the only in this case) Mafia Killer slot will be filled with the other mafia killer. If case 2 is raised, one of the Random Mafia roles will be rolled as if it was a Mafia Killer slot. If case 3 is raised, then for the amount of times an Any slot appears, we roll to see a role and its faction. If one of the rolls we get belongs to the Mafia, then a random Any slot becomes one of the Mafia Killers. If for the amount of Anys the role list has, no roles belong to the Mafia, then it is noted down, the list remains unmodified, and in the future when doing rolls, Mafia becomes impossible to roll.

    Now that all the special cases have been taken care of, it comes time for the general generation. At this point, the categorical generation has no special rules in mind, barring two, which is the size limit for the mafia and the vampires. Outside of a simple counter to keep track of that, and to nullify their weight in generation once the limit is reached, generation can now be done hands free.
